										WORKSHEET
									DEEP LEARNING – WORKSHEET 5
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.
1. Which of the following are advantages of batch normalization?
A) Reduces internal covariant shift.
B) Regularizes the model and reduces the need for dropout, photometric distortions, local response
normalization and other regularization techniques.
C) allows use of saturating nonlinearities and higher learning rates.
D) All of the above
Ans): D) All of the above



2. Which of the following is not a problem with sigmoid activation function?
A) Sigmoids do not saturate and hence have faster convergence
B) Sigmoids have slow convergence.
C) Sigmoids saturate and kill gradients.
D) Sigmoids are not zero centered; gradient updates go too far in different directions, making optimization
more difficult.
Ans): C) Sigmoids saturate and kill gradients.



3. Which of the following is not an activation function?
A) Swish B) Maxout
C) SoftPlus D) None of the above
Ans): C) SoftPlus


4. The tanh activation usually works better than sigmoid activation function for hidden units because the mean of
its output is closer to zero, and so it centers the data better for the next layer. True/False?
A) True B) False
Ans):A) True


5. In which of the weights initialisation techniques, does the variance remains same with each passing layer?
A) Bias initialisation B) Xavier Initialisation
C) He Normal Initialisation D) None of these
Ans):B) Xavier Initialisation


6. Which of the following is main weakness of AdaGrad?
A) learning rate shrinks and becomes infinitesimally small
B) learning rate doesn’t shrink beyond a point
C) change in learning rate is not adaptive
D) AdaGrad adapts updates to each individual parameter
Ans): B) learning rate doesn’t shrink beyond a point



7. In order to achieve right convergence faster, which of the following criteria is most suitable?
A) momentum and learning rate both must be high
B) momentum must be high and learning rate must be low
C) momentum and learning rate both must be low
D) momentum must be low and learning rate must be high
Ans): D) momentum must be low and learning rate must be high


8. When is an error landscape is said to be poor(ill) conditioned?
A) when it has many local minima
B) when it has many local maxima
C) when it has many saddle points and flat areas
D) None of these
Ans): C) when it has many saddle points and flat areas


Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.
9. Which of the following Gradient Descent algorithms are adaptive?
A) ADAM B) SGD
C) NADAM D) RMS Prop.
Ans): A) ADAM B) SGD



10. When should an optimization function (gradient descent algorithm) stop training:
A) when it reaches local minimum B) when it reaches saddle point
C) when it reaches global minimum
D) when it reaches a local minima which is similar to global minima (i.e. which has very less error distance
with global minima) 
Ans):   A) when it reaches local minimum
	C) when it reaches global minimum
	D) when it reaches a local minima which is similar to global minima (i.e. which has very less error distance


Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.
11. What are convex, non-convex optimization?
Ans): 	A convex optimization problem is a problem where all of the constraints are convex functions, and the objective is a convex function if minimizing, or a concave function if maximizing.  Linear functions are convex, so linear programming problems are convex problems.
	A non-convex optimization problem is any problem where the objective or any of the constraints are non-convex.
	
12. What do you mean by saddle point? Answer briefly.
Ans): When we optimize neural networks or any high dimensional function, for most of the trajectory we optimize, the critical points (the points where the derivative is zero or close to zero) are saddle points. The thing with saddle points is that they are a type of optimum which combines a combination of minima and maxima. Because the number of dimensions is so large with deep learning, the probability that an optimum only consists of a combination of minima is very low. This means 'getting stuck' in a local minimum is rare. At the risk of oversimplifying, 
 it's harder to 'get stuck' in a saddle point because you can 'slide down one of the dimensions


13. What is the main difference between classical momentum and Nesterov momentum? Explain briefly.
Ans): The difference between Momentum method and Nesterov Accelerated Gradient is in gradient computation phase. In Momentum method, the gradient was computed using current parameters θ𝑡
whereas in Nesterov Accelerated Gradient, we apply the velocity vt to the parameters θ to compute interim parameters θ̃ . We then compute the gradient using the interim parameters

14. What is Pre initialisation of weights? Explain briefly.
Ans): weight initialization is to prevent layer activation outputs from exploding or vanishing during the course of a forward pass through a deep neural network. If either occurs, loss gradients will either be too large or too small to flow backwards beneficially, and the network will take longer to converge, if it is even able to do so at all.
Matrix multiplication is the essential math operation of a neural network. In deep neural nets with several layers, one forward pass simply entails performing consecutive matrix multiplications at each layer, between that layer’s inputs and weight matrix. The product of this multiplication at one layer becomes the inputs of the subsequent layer, and so on and so forth.


15. What is internal covariance shift in Neural Networks?
Ans): We define Internal Covariate Shift as the change in the distribution of network activations due to the change in network parameters during training, the output of the first layer feeds into the second layer, the output of the second layer feeds into the third, and so on. When the parameters of a layer change, so does the distribution of inputs to subsequent layers.