							WORKSHEET
						Statistics– WORKSHEET 4
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
a) True
b) False

An) a) True

2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly
normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem
b) Central Mean Theorem
c) Centroid Limit Theorem
d) All of the mentioned

Ans) b) Central Mean Theorem

3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution?
a) Modeling event/time data
b) Modeling bounded count data
c) Modeling contingency tables
d) All of the mentioned

Ans) a) Modeling event/time data

4. Point out the correct statement.
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the lognormal distribution
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the
variables are dependent
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared
distribution
d) All of the mentioned5. __________ random variables are used to model rates.
a) Empirical
b) Binomial
c) Poisson
d) All of the mentioned

Ans) c) Poisson

6. 10. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT.
a) True
b) False

Ans) a) True

7. 1. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
a) Probability
b) Hypothesis
c) Causal
d) None of the mentioned


Ans) b) Hypothesis

8. 4. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the
original data.
a) 0
b) 5
c) 1
d) 10

Ans) a) 0

9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with
respect to outliers?
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence
b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship
d) None of the mentioned

Ans) a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence


Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?
Ans)    A Normal distribution is when the data points are almost close to each other 
	and when this is plot on a graph it results in a symmetrical curve also called the bell curve.
	This implies that the data points under the curve are almost equal on both left and right sides.

11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
Ans)  Missing data can be handled in various ways. some of which include;
	Completely dropping the rows containing those missing data
	Using the fillna() method
	Using the Replace() method
Depending on the nature of data available i recommend the fillna() method where the missing values can 
either be filled with the mean of the values within that particular column, or with zero, or with the 
mode of the column in the case of categorical data. 


12. What is A/B testing
Ans) A/B testing refers to the experiments where two or more variations of the same webpage are compared against each other 
	by displaying them to real-time visitors to determine which one performs better for a given goal.
	 A/B testing is not limited by web pages only, you can A/B test your emails, popups, sign up forms, apps and more. Nowadays, 
	most MarTech software comes with an A/B testing function built-in.

13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?
Ans) Yes. Mean imputation for missing data is an acceptable practice.

14. What is linear regression in statistics?
Ans) Linear Regression in statistics is a model that applies the linear equation y=mx+c to analyze a situation 
	where the data points are not linear i.e they fall outside of the plotted line. hence the linear regression 
	tries to calculate the difference from the line to the points which is called errors. the Linear regression 
	equation then becomes Y = Mx + C + e where M is the slope, x is the independent variable, C is the intercept, 
	e is the error and Y is the dependent variable.

15. What are the various branches of statistics?A/B testing is a statistical method of comparing two versions which can be reffered to as version A 
Ans) the two main branches of statistics are Descriptive and Inferential Statistics.Descriptive Statistics can then 
	be fruther categorised into:
		Measrues of Central Tendency
		Measures of Dispersion
		Measures of Position and 
		Measures of Frequency
	Inferential Statistics are further categorised into:
		Linear Regression
		Logistic Regression
		Analysis of Variance 
		Analysis of Covariance and
		Statistic Significance (T-Test)