										WORKSHEET
									Statistics– WORKSHEET 6
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation?
a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
d) All of the mentioned

Ans): b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation

2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes.
a) random
b) direct
c) binomial
d) none of the mentioned

Ans):c) binomial

3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned

Ans):a) 2

4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called:
(a) Type-I error
(b) Type-II error
(c) Standard error
(d) Sampling error

Ans): a) Type-I error


5. Level of significance is also called:
(a) Power of the test
(b) Size of the test
(c) Level of confidence
(d) Confidence coefficient


Ans):d) Confidence coefficient

6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size:
(a) Decreases
(b) Increases
(c) Both of them
(d) None of them

Ans):b) Increases

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
(a) Probability
(b) Hypothesis
(c) Causal
(d) None of the mentioned

Ans): b) Hypothesis

8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
(a) Minimize errors
(b) Minimize false positives
(c) Minimize false negatives
(d) All of the mentioned

Ans):d) All of the mentioned

9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
(a) 0 (b) 5
(c) 1 (d) 10

Ans):a) 0

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?
Ans): Bayes' theorem, named after 18th-century British mathematician Thomas Bayes, is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability. Conditional probability is the likelihood of an outcome occurring, based on a previous outcome occurring. Bayes' theorem provides a way to revise existing predictions or theories (update probabilities) given new or additional evidence
Formula For Bayes' Theorem
P(A∣B)=P(B)P(A⋂B)=P(B)P(A)⋅P(B∣A)
 
where:
P(A)= The probability of A occurring
P(B)= The probability of B occurring
P(A∣B)=The probability of A given B
P(B∣A)= The probability of B given A
P(A⋂B))= The probability of both A and B occurring


11. What is z-score?
Ans): A z-score measures the distance between an observation and the mean, measured in units of standard deviation. In other words, z-score is the number of standard deviations there are between a given value and the mean of the data set.
The formula for calculating a z-score is is z = (x-μ)/σ.


12. What is t-test? 
Ans):A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. It is mostly used when the data sets, like the data set recorded as the outcome from flipping a coin 100 times, would follow a normal distribution and may have unknown variances. 
    A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an assumption applicable to a population. 

13. What is a percentile?
Ans):Percentile” is in everyday use, but there is no universal definition for it. The most common definition of a percentile is a number where a certain percentage of scores fall below that number. You might know that you scored 67 out of 90 on a test. But that figure has no real meaning unless you know what percentile you fall into.
 If you know that your score is in the 90th percentile, that means you scored better than 90% of people who took the test.


14. What is ANOVA?
Ans):Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models and their associated estimation procedures (such as the "variation" among and between groups) used to analyze the differences among group means in a sample. ANOVA was developed by the statistician Ronald Fisher. The ANOVA is based on the law of total variance, 
where the observed variance in a particular variable is partitioned into components attributable to different sources of variation

15. How can ANOVA help?
Ans):ANOVA checks the impact of one or more factors by comparing the means of different samples. We can use ANOVA to prove/disprove if all the medication treatments were equally effective or not.